# Ant Colony Optimization Algorithm for Bays29

## Directory Layout
- main.py - source code file for executing the simple aco algorithm and generating the subsequent graphs for the sub-questions in Question 3
- tsp.py - source code file for using the coordinates listed in Question 3 and calculating the distances for running aco on Bays29, the 29 city TSP problem
- README.md - contains instructions to execute the program and information about the directory
- Q3-Report - comments/observations for the deliverables section under Question 3
- *.png files - plots or graphs generated by running the program

## Executing ACO
Download the zip file locally and unzip, navigate inside the directory where main.py is located using the console.

To execute the program simply run **python3 main.py**. The program execution requires user interaction. Enter 1 to run the program with default parameters - There parameters are chosen to provide the best possible solution efficienty. If the user enters 0, then they will be prompted to enter values for the parameters used to execute the program.

### Restrictions on arguments for efficient execution
- 0 < Population <= 1000
- 0 < Pheromone Decay Constant(rho) < 1
- 0 < alpha <= 10
- 0 < beta <= 10
- Q (constant) >= 0
- online pheromone update - True or False

If any of the arguments don't meet these restrictions, the program will set an adequate default value for the user automatically

## Understanding the Output
A tour is a list consisting of 29 city numbers as indicated in Question 3. The salesman travels follows a tour by following the order of the list (adjacency is important). The algorithm outputs the parameter information, the value of the arguments the program will run ACO with. Iteration number is printed in multiples of 100 so the user knows that the program isn't stuck and is being executed. 
Along with the iterations, the cost of the best tours found so far by an ant are also printed to the console to depict the progress made by the ant colony.

At the end of the execution, the best tour found by ACO is printed to the console along with the cost of taking that tour (distance travelled by salesman if that tour is taken). A graph named 'best_tour.png' is saved in the same directory as the main.py file with a map of the tour plan. The map has labels of the starting and the ending cities with x and y coordinates as x-y axes respectively.

----

_Author: Meg Alapati_

_Student #: 20747086_

_Student ID: bmalapat_


